# Simple React Project
________________________________________________________________________________
<!-- @import "[TOC]" {cmd="toc" depthFrom=2 depthTo=6 orderedList=false} -->

<!-- code_chunk_output -->

- [Using a custom template](#using-a-custom-template)
- [If you like deleting files...](#if-you-like-deleting-files)
  - [Simplifying the `public` folder](#simplifying-the-public-folder)
  - [Simplifying the `src` folder](#simplifying-the-src-folder)
- [What you learned](#what-you-learned)

<!-- /code_chunk_output -->
________________________________________________________________________________


While creating a new React project using Create React App is easy to do, the
application that the default template generates contains items and content that
aren't essential for learning React. Distilling the generated application down
to its essential items and content removes all distractions and allows you to
focus on the basics.

When you finish this article, you should be able to:

* Create a simple React application using a custom Create React App template;
  and,
* Create a simple React application by removing items and content from a project
  generated by the Create React App default template.

## Using a custom template

Deleting files from the standard _Create React App_ template can get tedious. To
help save you time, App Academy has a custom template that you can use with
Create React App to generate a simple React application!

Just run the following command:

```sh
npx create-react-app my-app --template @appacademy/simple
```

Feel free to change `my-app` to whatever you'd like. Once the command completes,
browse to the generated application folder and run `npm start` to start your
application!

## If you like deleting files...

If you still just want to use the template that comes with _Create React App_
and want to delete the files yourself, here's that guide for you to follow.

To start, use Create React App to create a new application:

```sh
npx create-react-app simple-project
```

Then open the `simple-project` folder in your code editor.

### Simplifying the `public` folder

In the `public` folder, you're only going to keep the `index.html` file, so
remove all of the following:

* `favicon.ico`
* `robots.txt`
* `logo192.png`
* `logo512.png`
* `manifest.json`

The `favicon.ico` and `robots.txt` files are useful for applications that will
actually be released and used by actual users, but not necessary for learning
projects. The `logo192.png` and `logo512.png` image files are referenced in the
`manifest.json` file and are [the icons that browsers use in various
contexts][manifest icons] (home screen, application menu, etc.) The
[`manifest.json` file][manifest] provides the metadata that's used when your web
app is installed on a user's mobile device or desktop.

Now you can simplify the content of the `index.html` to this:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>React App</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

To get to the above HTML, you can:

* Remove the unnecessary lines of code until you're left with the above code; or
* You can remove all of the code and use the `html:5` Emmet command to generate
  the boilerplate HTML and add a `<div>` element with an `id` attribute set to
  `root` (this is the element that your React application will render to).

### Simplifying the `src` folder

In the `src` folder, you're going to keep the following files:

* `App.js`
* `index.css`
* `index.js`

And remove all of the following:

* `App.css`
* `App.test.js`
* `logo.svg`
* `serviceWorker.js`
* `setupTests.js`

The `App.css` file is where you'd add styles that are scoped to the `App`
component and the `App.test.js` file is where you'd write unit tests for the
`App` component. While you're learning React, styling components and writing
unit tests won't be a focus. If you want to add some basic styles for your
application, you can use the `index.css` file to add global styles.

The `logo.svg` file was part of the visual design of the generated application.
The `serviceWorker.js` file contains code that registers a [service worker][mdn
service worker] which allows the application load faster on subsequent visits
if/when the application is released into production. The `setupTests.js` file
contains a single import statement for a module that helps make it easier to
write unit test assertions on DOM nodes.

Now you can update the contents of the `App.js`, `index.css`, and `index.js`
files to the following:

```js
// ./src/App.js

import React from 'react';

function App() {
  return (
    <h1>Hello world!</h1>
  );
}

export default App;
```

```css
/* ./src/index.css */

/* TODO Add site wide styles */
```

```js
// ./src/index.js

import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import './index.css';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

> For your reference, here's a repo containing the final simple React project:
> [react simple project]

## What you learned

In this article, you learned how to:

* Create a simple React application by removing items and content from a project
  generated by the Create React App default template; and
* Create a simple React application using a custom Create React App template.

[manifest icons]: https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/manifest/icons
[manifest]: https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-app-manifest/
[react simple project]: https://github.com/appacademy-starters/react-simple-project
[mdn service worker]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API
