# Relational Databases and SQL

## Comparing Database Types

**SQL:**

- Data is arranged in rows, columns, schemas, and tables relationality
- Very reliable and fast in retrieving data
- Well-defined standards to abide by
- Easy retrieval and storage

**NOSQL:**

- Data is arranged in unstructured documents
- High level of flexibility with different data models
- Good for large-scale storage of unstructured data such as messaging data, log data, user and session data
- Lower Cost & Open Source
- Scalability is easier: designed to perform exceptionally well under various conditions
- Better redundancy (more likely to have copies of data)

**SQLite vs The Rest**

- ...

## Relational Databases

**Relation** = List of Stuff

**One-to-one relation** is where a record on one table is copied to another table (e.g. a user’s email being present on two tables)

**One-to-many relation** is where a record represents/is connected to many different records (e.g. a user may have many orders from a store. An order can only have one user)

**Many-to-many relation** is where many records can relate to many other records. This requires a connecting table to reference the relationships between all the records(e.g. many students may have many different classes that they attend. A connecting table called “enrolments” would contain references to which students go to which classes).

**Tables:**

- Data in rows and columns
- Column represents a field or attribute that is common to all records
- Tables normally have more rows than columns
- Tables have Primary Keys that uniquely identify each row.
- relationships with other tables are represented by Foreign Keys

**Index:**

- Similar to an index in the back of a book
- The index lists all the topics in a specified order and then refers to one or more specific records.
- An index creates a new data structure that refers to a specific table(s).
- It is stored on the database
- Used to speed up searching in the database
- Indexes can be created or dropped with no effect on the data

**View:**

- A view is a virtual table created from the output of an SQL query.
- Views allow us to:
  - Structure data in a user-friendly way.
  - Control + restrict access to the specific data/allow users to modify exactly what they need and no more.
  - Summarise data from various tables
