## Report
From 'DigitalOcean Abuse' <abuse-replies@digitalocean.com>
Proxying for: brand.response@cscglobal.com
Subject: Re: [DigitalOcean] Ticket #04173480: [119957750] DMCA Notice against https://www.picki.ca/assurance-vie/manuvie/: [ ref:_00Df218t5m._5004P1KK0jz:ref ]
Date: Nov 18, 2020, 5:37 AM (UTC-8)


Hi there,

This notice is to inform you that material posted on one or more of your Droplet(s), was the subject of a notification of claimed copyright infringement pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). A copy of that notice is included below. As you know, Digital Ocean provides hosting service to your Droplet, but is not responsible for the content hosted there. Copyright infringement is expressly forbidden by our terms of service and can, in appropriate circumstances, result in the termination of your service with Digital Ocean. DigitalOcean takes seriously the DMCA notices it receives and expects its customers to do the same.

Accordingly, no later than 3 days from today, you must certify in writing that you have removed or disabled access to the material identified in the attached DMCA notice.

If we do not hear from you within 3 days, we may disable access to the Droplet without further notice. Please let us know if you have questions about this issue or would like additional information.

Trust & Safety
DigitalOcean


--------------------

1. Electronic or physical signature of the rights holder or the person authorized to act on behalf of that person;
[REDACTED], Security Response Team, Corporation Service Company, also known as "CSC"
251 Little Falls Dr, Wilmington, DE, USA 19808
On behalf of Manulife owner of https://www.manulife.com/

2. Identification of the copyrighted work that has been infringed;
The home page and all associated webpages https://www.manulife.com/. A few of many examples include content from the homepage, such as:


1. The Manulife logo and name listed all over the pages

2. The Manulife products and other products displayed in the home page

3. All the services and Manulife references displayed in the page


3. An identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the hosting provider to locate the material (for example, by providing a URL to the material); or, if applicable, identification of the reference or link to material or activity claimed to be infringing, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the hosting provider to locate that reference or link;

The home page and all associated webpages of https://www.picki.ca/assurance-vie/manuvie/ Examples include content from the homepage:


1. The Manulife logo and name listed all over the pages

2. The Manulife products and other products displayed in the home page

3. All the services and Manulife references displayed in the page


4. Name, address, telephone number, and email address of the person claiming infringement;
[REDACTED], Security Response Team Leader, Corporation Service Company
251 Little Falls Dr, Wilmington, DE, USA, 19808
Telephone: + 1 408 477 7748
Email: brand.response@cscglobal.com<mailto:brand.response@cscglobal.com>

5. A statement by the person claiming infringement has a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the rights holder, its agent, or the law;
CSC has been informed that there is currently a website hosted or registered through your company that has copied the contents of "https://www.manulife.com/" (owned by our client of Manulife) and copied portions of its page content and code. The website in question that is infringing on this intellectual property and using it without authorization of Manulife is: https://www.picki.ca/assurance-vie/manuvie/

The use of the Manulife name and logo confuses customers into thinking that this is a real Manulife website by associated. Any misrepresentation of the copyrighted name and logo is not authorized. Its likeness is strictly reserved for the official purposes of Manulife. and is protected from unauthorized use. All material on the Manulife official Websites remain the exclusive property Manulife. Any reproduction, transmission, or any other use of the website material without permission of Manulife is strictly prohibited. Furthermore this implicates affiliation to the brand owner and confuse buyers who are searching for official "Manulife" branded websites.

6. A statement that the information in the notification is accurate and a statement, made under penalty of perjury, that the person claiming infringement is the rights holder or is authorized to act on the behalf of the rights holder.
I, Joseph Thomas and CSC, confirm the information in the notification is accurate and that under penalty of perjury, that I, Joseph Thomas and CSC, are authorized to act on the behalf of the rights holder, Manulife.

.............................................................
[REDACTED]
Security Response Analyst | Global Security Response Team
Phone: [REDACTED]
brand.response@cscglobal.com<mailto:brand.response@cscglobal.com>

CSC(r)
251 Little Falls Drive
Wilmington, Delaware 19808-1674
USA
cscdigitalbrand.services<http://cscdigitalbrand.services/>
[cid:image003.jpg@01D411F7.1BC0C700]
We are the business behind business

24/7 Global Security Response Team
Toll Free: +1 866 880 7025
International: +1 408 477 7706


________________________________

NOTICE: This e-mail and any attachments is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged, proprietary or confidential information. If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this email, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you receive this email in error please immediately notify me via reply email or at +1 302 636 5400 and permanently delete the original copy and any copy of any e-mail, and any printout.

ref:_00Df218t5m._5004P1KK0jz:ref
