Dear Legal Department:

We represent Apple Inc. (Apple), and it has come to their attention that the website code2learn.co.in (Infringing Website) infringes Apples copyrighted works. The Infringing Website hosts content that is original, copyrighted works created by Apple, and it does so without permission from Apple the copyright owner. The associated IP addresses are 192.81.212.192 and 162.243.166.170. We understand that you are the service provider for this website and as such are responsible for the content hosted on the website. We request that you remove the infringing content from the Infringing Website as soon as possible.

Specifically, the Infringing Website code2learn.co.in is an identical duplicate of the original content owned by Apple, which is located at aa.apple.com. Apples content consists of a summary of accessibility standard created by Apple, which is called Apple Accessibility. Attached is a screenshot of the original content created by Apple. A comparison of the screenshot and the Infringing Website code2learn.co.in clearly illustrates that the Infringing Website code2learn.co.in has copied Apples content. Therefore, the Infringing Website code2learn.co.in infringes Apples copyright.

We have good faith that use of the material in the manner described in this letter is not authorized by the intellectual property holder, any agent of the holder, or any applicable law. The information provided here is accurate to the best of our knowledge. We swear under penalty of perjury that we are authorized to act on behalf of Apple with respect to the subject matter of this letter.

Nothing contained in this letter is intended or should be deemed to be a waiver of Apples rights, claims, defenses, or remedies, all of which are hereby expressly reserved.

We look forward to your prompt cooperation in this matter.

Best regards,


[REDACTED]

Reed Smith LLP
Silicon Valley
Direct: [REDACTED] | Office: 650-352-0500
[REDACTED] | www.reedsmith.com
