### Introduction

_Server-side rendering_ (SSR) is a popular technique for rendering a client-side _single page application_ (SPA) on the server and then sending a fully rendered page to the client. This allows for dynamic components to be served as static HTML markup.

This approach can be useful for search engine optimization (SEO) when indexing does not handle JavaScript properly. It may also be beneficial in situations where downloading a large JavaScript bundle is impaired by a slow network.

In this tutorial, you will initialize a React app using [Create React App](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/react-create-react-app) and then modify the project to enable server-side rendering.

**Warning:** The code provided in this tutorial is for educational purposes and is not intended for production use. Alternatively, [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) offers a modern approach to creating static and server-rendered applications built with React.

At the end of this tutorial, you will have a working project with a client-side React application and a server-side Express application.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need:

- Node.js installed locally, which you can do by following [How to Install Node.js and Create a Local Development Environment](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorial_series/how-to-install-node-js-and-create-a-local-development-environment).

This tutorial was verified with Node v14.4.0, `npm` v6.14.5, `react` v16.13.1, `@babel/core` v7.10.4, `webpack` v4.42.0, `express` v4.17.1, `nodemon` v2.0.4, and `npm-run-all` v4.1.5.

## Step 1 — Creating the React App and Modifying the App Component

First, we use [npx](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/workflow-npx) to start up a new React app using the latest version of Create React App.

Let’s call our app my-ssr-app:

Then, we `cd` into the new directory:

    cd my-ssr-app

Finally, we start our new client-side app in order to verify the installation:

You should see an example React app display in your browser window.

Now, let’s create a `<Home>` component:

Next, add the following code to the `Home.js` file:

src/Home.js

This will create a `<h1>` heading with a `"Hello"` message directed to a name.

Next, let’s render the `<Home>` in the `<App>` component. Open the `App.js` file:

Then, replace the existing lines of code with these new lines of code:

src/App.js

This passes along a `name` to `<Home>` component so the message that we expect to display is `"Hello Sammy!"`.

In our app’s `index.js` file, we’ll use ReactDOM’s [`hydrate` method](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-dom.html#hydrate) instead of `render` to indicate to the DOM renderer that we’re rehydrating the app after a server-side render.

Let’s open the `index.js` file:

Then, replace the contents of the `index.js` file with the following code:

index.js

That concludes setting up the client-side, we can move on to setting up the server-side.

## Step 2 — Creating an Express Server and Rendering the App Component

Now that we have our app in place, let’s set up a server that will send along a rendered version. We’ll use [Express for our server](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/nodejs-express-basics). Let’s add it to the project by entering the following command in your terminal window:

Or, using yarn:

Next, create a `server` directory next to the app’s `src` directory:

Then, create a new `index.js` file that will contain the Express server code:

Add the imports that will need and define some constants:

server/index.js

Next, add the server code with some error handling:

server/index.js

As you may see, we can import our `<App>` component from the client app directly from the server.

Three important things are taking place here:

- We tell Express to serve contents from the `build` directory as static files.
- We use a method from `ReactDOMServer`, `renderToString`, to render our app to a static HTML string.
- We then read the static `index.html` file from the built client app, inject our app’s static content in the `<div>` with an `id` of `"root"`, and send that as the response to the request.

## Step 3 — Configuring webpack, Babel, and `npm` Scripts

For our server code to work, we’ll need to bundle and transpile it, using [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) and [Babel](https://babeljs.io/). To accomplish this, let’s add the dev dependencies to the project by entering the following command in your terminal window:

Or, using yarn:

**Note:** An earlier version of this tutorial installed `babel-core`, `babel-preset-env`, and `babel-preset-react-app`. These packages have since been archived, and the mono repo versions are utilized instead.

Next, create a Babel configuration file in your project’s root directory:

Then, add the `env` and `react-app` presets:

.babelrc.json

**Note:** An earlier version of this tutorial used a `.babelrc` file (no `.json` file extension). This was a configuration file for Babel 6, but this is no longer the case for Babel 7.

Now, we will create a webpack config for the server that uses Babel Loader to transpile the code. Start by creating the `webpack.server.js` file in your project root directory:

Then, add the following configurations to the `webpack.server.js` file:

webpack.server.js

With this configuration, our transpiled server bundle will be output to the `server-build` folder in a file called `index.js`.

Note the use of `target: 'node'` and `externals: [nodeExternals()]` from `webpack-node-externals`, which will omit the files from `node_modules` in the bundle; the server can access these files directly.

This completes the dependency installation and webpack and Babel configuration.

Now, we will revisit `package.json` to add helper `npm` scripts:

We will add `dev:build-server`, `dev:start`, and `dev` scripts to the `package.json` file to build and serve our SSR application easily:

package.json

The `dev:build-server` script sets the environment to `"development"` and invokes `webpack` with the configuration file we created earlier. The `dev:start` script invokes `nodemon` to serve the built output.

The `dev` script invokes `npm-run-all` to run in `parallel` the `build` script and all scripts that start with `dev:*` - including `dev:build-server` and `dev:start`.

**Note:** You will not need to modify the existing `"start"`, `"build"`, `"test"`, and `"eject"` scripts in the `package.json` file.

We use `nodemon` to restart the server when we make changes to it. And we use `npm-run-all` to run multiple commands in parallel.

Let’s install those packages now by entering the following commands in your terminal window:

Or, using yarn:

With this in place, you can run the following to build the client-side app, bundle and transpile the server code, and start up the server on `:3006`:

Or, using yarn:

Our server webpack config will watch for changes and our server will restart on changes. For the client app, however, we currently still need to build it each time we make changes. There’s an [open issue for that here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/issues/1070).

Now, open `http://localhost:3006/` in your web browser and you will see your server-side rendered app.

Previously, the source code revealed:

But now, with the changes you made, the source code reveals:

The server-side rendering successfully converted the `<App>` component into HTML.

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you initialized a React application and enabled server-side rendering.

With this post, we just scratched the surface at what’s possible. Things tend to get a bit more complicated once routing, data fetching, or Redux also need to be part of a server-side rendered app.

One major benefit of using SSR is having an app that can be crawled for its content, even for crawlers that don’t execute JavaScript code. This can help with search engine optimization (SEO) and providing metadata to social media channels.

SSR can also often help with performance because a fully loaded app is sent down from the server on the first request. For non-trivial apps, your mileage may vary because SSR requires a setup that can get a bit complicated, and it creates a bigger load on the server. Whether to use server-side rendering for your React app depends on your specific needs and on which trade-offs make the most sense for your use case.

If you’d like to learn more about React, take a look at our [How To Code in React.js](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorial_series/how-to-code-in-react-js) series, or check out [our React topic page](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tags/react) for exercises and programming projects.
