# Client Side Authentication

**Transportability**

- HTTP headers have a limited character set so that it is compatiple with many systems and cross platform.
- We can use encoders and hashing to make data more portable over HTTP

**Encoding & Hashing Javascript**

- The Javascript `window` object comes with built in functions for encoding and decoding base64:
- `window.btoa()` (Binary to ASCII)

```
btoa(data);
// returns => <base64encodedData>
```

- `window.atob()` (ASCII to Binary)

```
atob(base64encodedData);
// returns => <data>
```

- We can include hashing functions js files and use them globally:

```
<script src="md5.js"></script>
```

```
md5(data);
// returns => <hashedData>
```

**Creating a Token in JS**

- We can create a basic token by using the building blocks given above:

```
function makeToken(payload, secret) {
    const encodedPayload = btoa(JSON.stringify(payload));
    const encodedSignature = btoa(md5(encodedPayload + btoa(secret)));

    // concatenate payload and signature with "." separator
    return `${encodedPayload}.${encodedSignature}`;
}
```

- How do we verify this token?

```
function(token, secret) {
    // destructure the payload and signature
    const [encodedPayload, encodedSignature] = token.split('.');

    // replicate the signature based on the shared secret
    const signature = btoa(md5(encodedPayload + btoa(secret)));

    // compare the two signatures to verify secret
    if (signature === encodedSignature) {
      // decode the payload to use within our app
      const payload == JSON.parse(atob(encodedPayload));
      return payload;
    }
    else {
      return 'Token not valid.'
    }
}
```

- _"We would not create or store a secret on the client like this, as nothing is secret in the browser. This is just a demonstration of the algorithm"._

**Why Is Encoding, Hashing & Encryption Useful?**

- **Encoding**:

  - Encoding is a two way representation of data
  - Base64, ..., and ... are examples
  - It's useful to make information portable

- **Hashing**:

  - Hashing allows us to fingerprint data
  - allows us to verify information integrity
  - Allows us to create signatures

- **Symmetric Encryption**

  - Uses a shared key to decrypt data
  - Example algorithms?
  - Useful for ...

- **Asymmetric Encryption**
  - Uses key pairs (public & private) to decrypt data
  - Example algorithms?
  - Useful for ...

**Verifying Tokens in the Browser**

- A method to verify that the tokens on the front end are valid is to have an `/api/verify` endpoint which a client can hit with its token present in its headers. The back end would then verify the token and return a success or error back to the client. Based on this server response, our front end app can allow or disallow the user to access particular views.

- This is a much more robust method than just checking whether a "token" is present in local storage.
